doc: Document DULT motion detector feature (#18138)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/fast_pair/locator_tag/README.rst

In the provisioned state, you can enter the recovery mode for a limited time.
This mode allows the Android device to recover a lost provisioning key from the locator tag.

> DULT Motion detector active mode

Reviewer: Pay attention to the spelling. In some places it is Motion detector and other places motion detector. Try to be consistent with the use.

Author: I'll stick to motion detector as that's the spelling in the official external DULT documentation.

> DULT Motion detector active mode

Reviewer 2: We can call it simply as we did for identification mode that is also DULT-based:

```suggestion
Motion detection mode
```

Author: I'd rather leave it as is. It's easier to later say that "motion detector is active" rather than saying "accessory is in motion detection mode". Also it will be better aligned with the logs on device. See LOG_INF("FMDN: motion detector started");, LOG_INF("FMDN: motion detector stopped");, LOG_INF("FMDN: motion indicated: motion detector is inactive");.

Reviewer 2: you can still say "motion detector is active", this is more about making the title shorter and less packed with information.

```
In the provisioned state, the accessory can activate the motion detector mode from the DULT specification.
```

--------------------

> In the provisioned state, the accessory can activate the motion detector mode from the DULT specification.

Reviewer: This sounds a bit strange, "activate the motion detector mode **from the ... spec**."
Should we rephrase?

Author: maybe "... mode defined in the DULT specification"?

> It happens when the accessory is separated from the owner for a randomized amount of time between :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MIN` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MAX`.

Reviewer 2: It makes more sense to describe such specifics in the detailed guide (e.g. integration) and use more vague values in the sample description (aka. sufficient time). Let's keep the sample description very high-level. If the user wants to dig deeper, they can use more details documentation.

> It happens when the accessory is separated from the owner for a sufficient amount of time (see :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MIN` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MAX` Kconfig options).

Reviewer: What happens exactly? The motion detector mode is activated?

> In this state, if the motion is detected, the accessory starts the ringing action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this state, if motion is detected, the accessory starts the ringing action.
```

> It is done to inform the non-owner that is moving the accessory, that the device might have been used to track the non-owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This informs the non-owner that is moving the accessory, that the device might have been used to track the non-owner.
```

> On DKs the simulated motion can be generated by button action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On DKs, the simulated motion can be generated by button action.
```

> On DKs, the simulated motion can be generated by button action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On DKs, you can generate the simulated motion by button action.
```

> On Thingy:53 the built-in accelerometer is used to detect the motion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Thingy0:53, the built-in accelerometer is used to detect the motion.
```

> On the Thingy0:53, the built-in accelerometer is used to detect the motion.

Reviewer 3: Thingy:53

> The motion detector is deactivated for :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD` after the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_MAX_SOUND_COUNT` number of sounds has been played or after the motion has been detected and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_ACTIVE_POLL_DURATION` amount of time has passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The motion detector is deactivated for the period set in the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD` Kconfig option after the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_MAX_SOUND_COUNT` number of sounds has been played or after the motion has been detected and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_ACTIVE_POLL_DURATION` amount of time has passed.
```

> The motion detector is deactivated for :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD` after the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_MAX_SOUND_COUNT` number of sounds has been played or after the motion has been detected and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_ACTIVE_POLL_DURATION` amount of time has passed.

Author: I will remove the max count and poll duration, but I'd like to keep backoff kconfig, because later on I stress the importance of enabling the test mode to shorten the periods.

         * Blinks at a 0.25 second interval if the DFU mode is enabled.

      LED 2:

>          Indicates that the ringing action is in progress, informs that the simulated motion has been detected, and informs that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Indicates that the ringing action is in progress, informing that the simulated motion has been detected and the motion detector is active.
```

>          Depending on the motion detected event, the ringing state, and the motion detector state:

Author: Hmm I think it looks better as is. It's more straight-forward that way.

         * Blinks fast twice if the motion detected event appears.

>          * Lit if the device is ringing and motion detected event is not being signalized.

Reviewer: "signalized" sounds a bit odd, but cannot figure out what would be better.

Reviewer 4: Maybe:

```suggestion
         * Lit if the device is ringing and no motion detection event is being indicated.
```

? We could also stick to "signal", but then I think it should be "signaled", instead of "signalized"

Author: Indicated sounds better. Thanks!

         See the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag_fp_adv_policy` section for details.

      Button 2:

>          Stops the ongoing ringing action on single press.
>          Generates simulated motion event on double press.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Stops the ongoing ringing action on a single press.
         Generates simulated motion event on a double press.
```

         * Blinks at a 0.25 second interval if the DFU mode is enabled.

      LED 1:

>          Indicates that the ringing action is in progress, informs that the simulated motion has been detected, and informs that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: Same suggestions as above.

   You cannot use the sample without the Fast Pair provisioning data.
   Programming the device with the sample firmware without providing the proper Fast Pair provisioning data results in assertion failure during boot.

> If you want to make testing the motion detector easier, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option to shorten the period between the device entering the Unwanted Tracking Protection mode and the activation of the motion detector.

Reviewer 2: Could you add the command example as it is done for release build?

```
.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight
   west build -b *board_target* -- -DCONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE=y
```

   west build -b *board_target* -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=release

Motion detector test build
==========================

If you want to make testing the motion detector easier, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option to shorten the period between the device entering the Unwanted Tracking Protection mode and the activation of the motion detector.

> With this option enabled, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MIN` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MAX` Kconfig options that are responsible for this period are shortened to 3 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this option enabled, the values of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MIN` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MAX` Kconfig options that are responsible for this period are shortened to three minutes.
```

Otherwise, the period would be a random value between 8 and 24 hours.

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option also shortens the motion detector backoff period (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD`) from 6 hours to 2 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option also shortens the motion detector backoff period (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD`) from six hours to two minutes.
```

      #. Start the ringing action on your device by tapping the :guilabel:`Play sound` button.
      #. Observe that **LED 1** is lit to confirm that the Android device is able to connect to your development kit after a clock synchronization.

Motion detector
---------------

To test this feature, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF52 and nRF53 DKs

>       1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option in the sample configuration to shorten the motion detector activation periods.

Reviewer 2: (comment repetition from https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/18138#discussion_r1816816884)

>       1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option in the sample configuration to shorten the motion detector activation periods.

Author: Oh, sorry I somehow missed it.

      #. Go to the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag_testing` section and follow the instructions on performing the FMDN provisioning operation.
      #. Observe that **LED 3** is lit, which indicates that the device is provisioned as an FMDN beacon.
      #. Double-click **Button 2** to simulate the motion event.
      #. Observe that **LED 2** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.
      #. Observe that the ringing action does not start, because the motion detector is inactive.
      #. Put the device into the Unwanted Tracking Protection mode.
         You can do it in two ways.
         If you are a developer approved by Google to access the "Inspect Spot device" tool of the Find My Device Android app, you can:

         1. Open the Find My Device app.
         #. Tap on your accessory in the list.
            The accessory should have "Nearby" written under its name.
         #. Tap on the gear icon next to the device name

>          #. Tap on the 3-dot menu and then tap on "Inspect Spot device (internal)".
>          #. Tap on the 3-dot menu and then tap on "Activate Unwanted Tracking Mode".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         #. Tap the 3-dot menu and then :guilabel:`Inspect Spot device (internal)`.
         #. Tap the 3-dot menu and then :guilabel:`Activate Unwanted Tracking Mode`.
```

         #. Observe the "Changed unwanted tracking mode successfully" message on the screen.
         #. Turn off your Android device to prevent it from automatically deactivating the mode.

>             That should be done as quickly as possible after activating the mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Do this as quickly as possible after activating the mode.
```

      #. Observe that after up to few hours the **LED 2** goes off which means that the motion detector has been deactivated, because the device is no longer in the Unwanted Tracking Protection mode.

   .. group-tab:: nRF54 DKs

      1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_TEST_MODE` Kconfig option in the sample configuration to shorten the motion detector activation periods.
      #. Go to the :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag_testing` section and follow the instructions on performing the FMDN provisioning operation.
      #. Observe that **LED 3** is lit, which indicates that the device is provisioned as an FMDN beacon.
      #. Double-click **Button 2** to simulate the motion event.
      #. Observe that **LED 2** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.
      #. Observe that the ringing action does not start, because the motion detector is inactive.
      #. Put the device into the Unwanted Tracking Protection mode.
         You can do it in two ways.
         If you are a developer approved by Google to access the "Inspect Spot device" tool of the Find My Device Android app, you can:

         1. Open the Find My Device app.

>          #. Tap on your accessory in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         #. Tap your accessory in the list.
```

            The accessory should have "Nearby" written under its name.
         #. Tap on the gear icon next to the device name

>          #. Tap on the 3-dot menu and then tap on "Inspect Spot device (internal)".
>          #. Tap on the 3-dot menu and then tap on "Activate Unwanted Tracking Mode".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         #. Tap the 3-dot menu and then :guilabel:`Inspect Spot device (internal)`.
         #. Tap the 3-dot menu and then :guilabel:`Activate Unwanted Tracking Mode`.
```

         #. Observe the "Changed unwanted tracking mode successfully" message on the screen.
         #. Turn off your Android device to prevent it from automatically deactivating the mode.

>             That should be done as quickly as possible after activating the mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Do this as quickly as possible after activating the mode.
```

         Otherwise, you can:

         1. Turn off your Android device.
         #. Wait for minimum 30 minutes for other Android device to put the device into the Unwanted Tracking Protection mode.
            The other Android device can belong to anyone around you.
            It is recommended to be in a crowded area.

      #. Wait for 3 minutes (random value between the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MIN` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_TIMEOUT_PERIOD_MAX` Kconfig options) for the motion detector to be activated.

>       #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks at a 0.25 second interval which indicates that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks at a 0.25 second interval, which indicates that the motion detector is active.
```

      #. Double-click **Button 1** to simulate the motion event.
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.

>       #. Observe that after up to 10 seconds, the ringing action starts for 1 second which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that after up to 10 seconds, the ringing action starts for one second which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.
```

      #. Observe that **LED 1** goes back to blinking at a 0.25 second interval which indicates that the motion detector is active.
      #. Double-click **Button 1** to simulate the motion event.
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.

>       #. Observe that after up to 0.5 second, the ringing action starts for 1 second which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that after up to 0.5 second, the ringing action starts for one second which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.
```

>       #. Observe that **LED 1** goes back to blinking at a 0.25 second interval which indicates that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that **LED 1** goes back to blinking at a 0.25 second interval, which indicates that the motion detector is active.
```

      #. Double-click **Button 1** to simulate the motion event.
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.

>       #. Observe that after up to 0.5 second, the ringing action starts which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that after up to 0.5 second, the ringing action starts, which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.
```

      #. Double-click **Button 1** to simulate the motion event while the **LED 1** is still lit (ringing action is still in progress).
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.

>       #. Observe that after 0.5 second, of not ringing, the ringing action starts again for 1 second which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that after 0.5 second, of not ringing, the ringing action starts again for one second, which is indicated by **LED 1** being lit.
```

>       #. Observe that **LED 1** goes back to blinking at a 0.25 second interval which indicates that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that **LED 1** goes back to blinking at a 0.25 second interval, which indicates that the motion detector is active.
```

      #. Observe that after 20 seconds from the first motion event or after 10 ringing actions completes, the **LED 1** is off, which indicates that the motion detector is inactive.
      #. Double-click **Button 1** to simulate the motion event.
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks fast twice, which indicates that the motion detected event appears.
      #. Observe that the ringing action does not start, because the motion detector is inactive.

>       #. Wait for 2 minutes (the backoff period defined by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD` Kconfig option) for the motion detector to be activated again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Wait for two minutes (the backoff period defined by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DULT_MOTION_DETECTOR_SEPARATED_UT_BACKOFF_PERIOD` Kconfig option) for the motion detector to be activated again.
```

>       #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks at a 0.25 second interval which indicates that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks at a 0.25 second interval, which indicates that the motion detector is active.
```

      #. Double-click **Button 1** to simulate the motion event and observe the ringing action just as before.
      #. Wait for 20 seconds for the **LED 1** to go off, which indicates that the motion detector is inactive.
      #. Wait for 2 minutes for the motion detector to be activated again.

>       #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks at a 0.25 second interval which indicates that the motion detector is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Observe that **LED 1** blinks at a 0.25 second interval, which indicates that the motion detector is active.
```
